A few weeks ago, the Enthropic team
released a 33-page guide on the one
feature that Cloud Code users either
heavily underutilize or completely
ignore with your skills. Now, I read the
whole thing cover to cover, not just fed
it to an LLM. And I'm going to walk you
through every pattern, every nugget,
every framework, and most importantly,
every mistake that you can avoid, so you
can get all the sauce from the six
chapters without having to spend the
time to read it yourself. But I didn't
just summarize it. I diagrammed each and
every concept across all six chapters.
So by the end of this video, you'll
never have a skill issue ever again.
Let's dive in. So the six chapters that
Anthropic goes through in this guide
cover fundamentals, planning and design,
testing and iteration, distribution and
sharing, patterns and troubleshooting,
and then they end off with resources and
references. So a lot of our diagrams
will follow the exact same flow. So if
we pop into our beautiful Excel, this is
the anatomy of what a skill looks like.
So you have the skill.mmd file right
here and it's supported by a series of
scripts, references, and assets. But the
most fundamental thing is having this
markdown file. In this markdown file
itself is a series of structures that
inform Claude code if and when to use
said skill. Now, if you're looking at
this and you still don't really know
what a skill is, the TLDDR is you can
think of it as Claude's way of
onboarding itself on your specific
workflow. So, on its own, Claude code is
already very smart. It can write, it can
analyze, but it might not have your
specific ways of doing things or
approaching problems in its training
data. So, these skills supplement its
skill issues when it comes to your
specific way of doing things. So you can
think of a skill pretty much as an
onboarding guide for cloud code for
whatever it is you're trying to use.
Whether it's a service, a process, a
series of steps, you're going to be able
to do everything you want. Now there's
three different levels of magic behind
the curtains of how a skill is used,
observed, and executed. And most Claude
Code users till this day don't know
this. So at the very front, we have
level one, which is called the YAML
front matter. Now what the word YAML
stands for doesn't really matter. just
know that it denotes the first snippet
of a skill file. And this really matters
because it's always loaded in the system
prompt whenever you have a brand new
cloud code session. So just to show you
more tangibly, if I show you an ongoing
session that I have building something
out, when I do /context right here, as
of the recent updates, all the MCP tools
are muted to preserve our context cuz
you can see how many tools that I have
and they're only invoked whenever
they're needed. But when it comes to the
skills, you'll see right here, all of
them are actually included in context.
But this is not the entire skill. This
is a small tiny micro snippet of the
skill. That's just enough to tell Claude
Code, should I actually investigate to
see what the skill is about and if we
should invoke it. So level one basically
just relies on the name and the
description. Once we go to level two is
where Cloud Code has more confidence
that this skill might be a match for the
particular task or project at hand. If
so, we dive into level two. So, this is
where it goes through all the procedural
information and core instructions. And
if it sees that in level two, yes, this
is exactly what we need to do. That's
where it goes down the tree to the
linked files. So, all the Python
scripts, everything associated with that
skill that makes that skill tick. So,
just in time means that they're only
used in full when it feels like it's
absolutely necessary to go down that
full set of context. Now by using skills
in many cases you can actually avoid
having to even use MCP servers but there
could be other scenarios where it makes
sense to use both MCPs and skills
together and that's where you can get
some super power workflows where you can
essentially think of MCP as providing
claude code the tooling and then skills
provide the recipe and procedure of
executing said tooling. So, if I were to
give you an analogous example to using
MCPs and skills in a lot more of a
tangible way, then if we were in a
kitchen, you can think of MCPs being the
hands that actually do the cooking,
while the skills are the recipes that
inform the hands exactly what
ingredients to use, in what order, and
in what amount. So, MCPs connect claw to
different services and give the tools to
have real time data access. And skills
can be thought of teaching cloud code
actual tangible workflows. So in many
ways these Python files being invoked by
the skills can be what used to be make
or end workflows on their own which is
why you would have seen so many YouTube
videos saying is make.com dead is zap
your dead is everything dead because a
lot of these skills can pseudo function
as these automated workflows from before
now extending our kitchen analogy there
are three core flavors of skills
category one is document and asset
creation and I use this quite a it for
anything related to PDFs, PowerPoint
presentations or Excel files. So this is
meant to create consistent, predictable,
highquality outputs. But the goal of a
skill is that it evolves as your
workflow evolves. And a good example of
this is the skill creator skill, the
meta skill. So giving Claude code the
ability to know how to create a
subsequent skill if you want to be able
to crystallize a specific procedure or
way of doing things. Category number
three is heavily underutilized, which is
getting the best out of MCP servers and
leaving all the bloat by actually
telling it how it should invoke the MCP
server and which tools to use in what
order. So instead of just yoloing the
MCP server calls to let's say Superbase
or Versel to create a database, edit a
table and just have it figure it out
along the way. Once you figure it out or
it figures it out once you crystallize
that process by doing basically a
reverse metaprompt and saying you know
what go through this whole process we
went through crystallize exactly how you
went from A to B. ignore all the noise
and fix that all in a skill where you
can always invoke that and know exactly
what procedure you followed to get to
that end point. So if we go back to our
terminal example to these MCP servers
instead of having it load the entire MCP
server then iterate through each and
every tool possible you can literally
say when we invoke the superbase MCP
server all I care about is for you to
acquaint yourself with using create
project list extension get logs etc. And
this helps also scope down the usage of
set MCP. So again, you can preserve that
context window as much as possible. Now,
a good example of this could be the
sentry code review skill. And if you
don't know what sentry is, it's
basically a monitoring platform,
especially for errors that happen in
production with general applications.
But you could create a sentry code
review skill that always knows exactly
when to go through Sentry to go through
all the error logs and understand what
happened and why. And you could apply
this to all kinds of scenarios. The real
goal here is not to just blindly call an
MCP server. It's to add your expertise
of exactly why you're using it and why
it should focus on particular tools
versus others. So this next section is
probably the most important, which is
where we double click on what we
referred to before as the YAML front
matter, which if you remember was level
one of the three different levels of
looking at a skill. And it's a section
that Claude Code always looks at at all
times. So the main two questions that
this has to answer perfectly is one what
does the skill do and number two when
does it need to be invoked. So when we
go into the details here if we zoom in
you'll see this is written in what's
called kebab case and kebab case is
literally this lowercase dashepparated
name and this should be a very
descriptive one to fourword description.
The core description though is where the
magic lies. So this is where you explain
what this is. In this case, it says
manages linear project workflows
including sprint planning, task
creations, and status tracking. Then key
extra gold nugget here is you should be
able to give keywords or trigger words
for the skill to be invoked. It's an
added cheat sheet or hint for cloud code
to really work off of. So in this case,
you could say use when user mentions
sprint, linear tasks, project planning,
or asks to create tickets. And because
cloud code is so smart, it can
semantically also find something similar
to create tickets. So if you said create
tasks and log them, then most likely it
will be the most semantically similar to
this specific trigger word. But
obviously if you use a trigger word,
then you almost have a 100% chance of it
invoking it. So beyond that, this is the
part you really need to nail down
because once you do that, as long as
this is less than a thousand characters,
everything else will be a matter of how
you design the rest of the scripts and
parts of the skill that matter. If you
wrote helps with projects, well, pretty
much every other skill could help with
projects. If you say creates
sophisticated multi-page documentation
systems, there's no real triggers here
as to exactly when this should be
called. And the last one if you say
implements the project entity model with
hierarchal relationships. One very
technical very buzzwordy and similar to
a consultant from a very big end firm
saying a bunch of words like a word
salad but not actually saying anything.
You want to make sure that your skill is
very refined and to the point. So
instead of helps with projects, you
should say something like analyzes Figma
design files and generates developer
handoff documents. Use when user uploads
fig files, ask for design specs or
design to code handoffs. And here
instead of saying create sophisticated
systems, you could say manages linear
project workflows including sprint
planning. Use when user mentions the
following. And last one implements the
project identity model. We don't want
that. You could say end toend customer
onboarding for payflow. Use when user
asks for this. So the more trigger words
you have even for different parts of the
skill process, the better. So the TLDDR
of the TLDDR is what it does, when to
use it, key trigger phrases equals
perfect description. And obviously you
don't have to write these yourself. You
could just walk through in plain
English, in slang, in whatever you
speak, and ask it to create the skill
itself because prompt engineering is now
a fully solved problem. So if we take a
look at some example files like I
promised and we go to this comparison
description right here. I already showed
you pair one what that looks like. But
if we take a look at pair two. So a bad
description would say implements a
sophisticated multi-paradigm data
transformation pipe. And this would fail
because it's not technical. No trigger
words. And a good version would be
cleans, validates, and transforms CSV
files for analysis. use when a user
says, "Clean the CSV, fix my data, or
prepare the spreadsheet for analysis."
Or a trigger could also be an event
where if you upload a CSV, that could
also be a trigger. So, that's an added
nugget right there. It doesn't always
have to be a textual trigger. It could
be event-based as well. And I have a
bunch of these in here that I'll make
available to you in the second link in
the description below. But this next one
I want to touch on is this overt
triggering. Now I have a bunch of other
examples but I wanted to zero in on this
one for a particular reason. You can
also overt trigger based on events. So
if you say processes documents and
analyzes data for business use, this
could be triggered for all kinds of
different use cases. So you want to be
as precise as possible. You would change
this to say advanced statistical
analysis for CSV data sets performs
regression, clustering, hypothesis
testing. It's a lot more specific on
exactly what processing documents means
because at some point your skill is
useless. You're just basically relying
on cloud code to interpret what is the
best thing to do on that situation since
you're not giving it any form of cheat
sheet or guide or onboarding on how to
do it itself. And if we take a look at
an MCP-based example, a bad version of
this would say works with Sentry to look
at errors. Instead, you'd want to be way
more specific. So, automatically
analyzes and fixes detected bugs in
GitHub pull requests using Sentry's
error monitoring and then use when a
user says the following. And now you
have something even more useful. Now,
you can even layer on which tools and
subtools it should invoke from said MCP
to keep it as focused as possible. Now,
this next section is the most complex
and intricate where anthropic walks
through the five different design
patterns where you can design a skill to
execute in a certain way. So pattern one
is the sequential workflow which is the
most linear where you go from step one
to step four in a very predictable
manner. If we take a hypothetical use
case of authentication, you would first
go through and create an account, then
set up payment, then create the
subscription, then get some form of
welcome email, and the dependency lies
on actually getting the customer ID and
information from step one. So this is
pretty straightforward. If any step
fails, then you roll back to prior
steps. Number two though is where we get
more complex where we get to multimcp
coordination. So you can use this when
you have workflows that span multiple
services. So maybe in phase one you have
the Figma MCP where you do the designing
and then you upload it to the drive MCP.
You create a project folder. Then you
use the linear MCP to create tasks for
your developers or yourself and then you
hand it off to the Slack MCP for a full
summary with a series of links. So this
is a series of different MCPs
orchestrated in a particular order and
in this case you can't move from phase
one to phase 2 until you have all the
prerequisites. Now pattern three is
iterative refinement and this is
probably the most used one in my
personal ecosystem and I use this even
for thumbnail generation where I'll
generate an initial thumbnail using an
excellently
what should be located on which part of
the thumbnail. Then I'll go through and
generate five 10 different versions
using Nano Banana. Then I'll spin up a
few agents to take a look at and audit
it and roast the thumbnail. Then refine
it and come back with the final five of
the 10 15 generated through the whole
process. So this part makes a lot of
sense when you need to go through a
couple different evolutions until you
get to the final version of whatever it
is you're trying to generate. So pattern
4 looks very similar to an NN workflow
where you could have the same input
which is an incoming file. Imagine you
use the world of NADN and you have a
form submission and you upload a file.
If it's a PDF it's treated one way. If
it's an Excel file, it's treated another
way. You can design a skill in the exact
same format where if you upload a file
and then you check the file type and
size and it realizes that it's a code
file, maybe it it uses and invokes the
GitHub MCP. Whereas if it's a
collaborative doc like a docx or
something similar, it uses the notion or
docs MCP. So now you're orchestrating a
couple different layers. You're
orchestrating MCPs and you're
orchestrating which different path the
same skill goes down depending on the
input. And the last pattern is really
for enterprise where it's domain
specific intelligence embedded into a
skill. So imagine all the understanding
of the code bases, the design of
infrastructure, everything that makes a
company tick on the IT side of things.
So this is where you'd have embedded
rules. You'd have a sanctions list.
You'd have a jurisdiction verification.
You'd have risk level assessments based
on exactly what's happening. Then you'd
have a series of decision logic. So all
of this would be custom. If you're a
business owner that runs on, let's say,
AWS and you have a series of
microservices and you have databases,
then this skill would tell it
specifically how you use those
microservices, which ones are editable
and how you can edit those services in a
way that lines up to exactly what your
normal procedure would be. So, whatever
the SOP would be for a new hire would be
the same SOP for this pattern. So, when
it comes to good versus bad
instructions, I have a few different
examples. The one I'll show you right
now is this bad one, which is very
handwavy. That says, "Help the user with
their data. Validate it and make sure
everything looks good. That's awful.
Process the data appropriately and
handle any issues that come up. Make
sure to check for errors and fix them if
possible." Now, it's very clear that
this is unbelievably vague. And the way
you'd make this a lot more actionable is
you literally structure it in steps. So
many skills that I've seen and ones that
I've designed for myself and my agency
and our clients all have this markdown
format where you have step one that says
inspect the data. Then you break down
exactly what does that look like to
inspect the data. Step two is you
identify the issues and then maybe you
can get the help of AI to create some
form of columnwise table that goes
through a decision framework or some
form of rubric. Then step three could be
apply the fixes. And then step four
could be export the clean data where you
tell it exactly what your expectations
are. So some name here, some dynamically
made name or cleaned.csv.
And this is where you have the balance
of being explicit while leaving slight
room for a dynamic nature of the task at
hand. So now you've built your skill.
How do you go about testing it? Well,
this section covers the three different
ways that you can do so. Number one is
what's called a triggering test where
you load a brand new terminal session
keyword new terminal session. You don't
want to use an existing one because it
could be muddied by the context and
accidentally invoke the skill just
because it knows that it should. And
just like Goldilocks would taste a very
hot soup and a very cold soup and find
the sweet spot for the perfectly testing
room temperature soup, you could have
the exact same scenario here where the
skill could be undertriggering or overt
triggering and ideally you have a sweet
spot where you have a very high hit rate
that invokes a skill when it makes sense
to. Now the second test you can run is
the functional test. So let's say it
triggers it after it goes through
everything. Do you actually get the
output you're expecting in the format
you're expecting deterministically every
single time? And a good use case would
be to try to battle test this one, four
or five times, then try it with maybe an
agent team or sub agents and see does
the behavior change in different
formats. If it doesn't, great. If it
does, then you can tell cloud code to
iterate and change the skill as needed
until you get the behavior you're
expecting. And this last test is likely
the one that many will ignore where
sometimes you get so committed to using
a skill that you overlook the fact that
based on this testing of one and two,
what if by at the end of all of that, it
would have been easier to not have the
skill at all and the skill actually adds
more error than it actually helps with.
So it's important to have some form of
benchmarking to know is this skill
valuable? If so, it should exist. If
not, maybe we created some form of
automated workflow or a cron job or a
Python file that does this entire
process in a very linear way. But
assuming that the skill is helpful, then
you want to make sure that the skill is
structured in the right format. So if we
take a look at the bad example here,
right here we have the name of the skill
and then we have the skill.md directly.
No references, no scripts, nothing. A
good version is something like this
where you have this CSV data pipeline.
Then you have this references that has
some form of markdown file that refers
to the different column types in the
CSV. Then you have the scripts folder
that has the Python files that are
invoked by the skill to execute whatever
it is. And then in the main folder is
this skillmd file. So these become the
dependencies right here. And the skill
MD is right there front and center. Once
you've solidified skills, my advice to
you is to not make a skill global until
you fully battle tested it. And battle
testing doesn't mean a couple of
minutes. It means run it for a month
maybe. And once it's good enough,
depending on where you're deploying
this, either personally or as an
organization, that's where it makes
sense to graduate to becoming a global
skill, something that you maybe commit
to a repo to be ingested and used
elsewhere. something you can use not
only in cloud but also claude co-work on
the front end or the cloud API with the
claude agent SDK. Now to bring
everything together from this journey of
creating a skill you have six different
chapters that we covered in the course
of this video. Number one is identifying
the use cases. So having two to three
concrete workflows that you create and
synthesize and crystallize as a skill.
Station two is planning and designing.
So creating the success criteria, the
PRDS, choosing which categories matter,
which MCPS if applicable matter and
planning the folder structure and then
station three is the most important part
which is the build section where you
want to perfect that YAML front matter
and crafting the perfect description
with the right trigger words. Then
station four to five are testing,
iterating, then distributing to make
sure it actually works well in
production and then monitoring and
evolving them over time. Usually a skill
will have to evolve over time as your
workflows or business or whatever it is
changes as well. So you can think of
skills as your ever living document
where you don't want to overbloat too
many skills. You want to be very
selective on what skills matter and how
well you can refine a single skill
before you go out and build even more.
And that pretty much synthesizes the
entire 33page document in a series of
diagrams. So hopefully this gives you
the bite-sized learnings to execute
everything and upskill your skill
creation to the next level. Now I'll
make all the examples of the good and
the bad when it comes to instructions,
descriptions, errors, everything
available to you in the second link in
the description below. And if you want
to take your general Claude code skill
set to brand new heights, then you want
to check out the first link in the
description below because we have a
brand new Claude zero to hero course.
And for the rest of you, if you found
this video helpful, please leave a like
and a comment on the video. It really
helps the video and helps the channel.